feat(Keystore): Introduce additional KMSConfiguration options (#270)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: framework/branch-key-store.md

This creates a hierarchy where a branch key wraps multiple data keys and facilitates caching.
These branch keys are only generated using the [AWS KMS API GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/APIReference/API_GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext.html).

By creating and persisting a data key to an accesbile medium,
such as a DynamoDb table,
distributed cryptographic agents can use a common, coordianted, data key

> as the root of a key hierarchy.

Reviewer: The data key is not the root, the KMS key is the root.

> distributed cryptographic agents can use a common, coordianted, data key
> as the root of a key hierarchy.

Author: ```suggestion
distributed cryptographic agents can use a common, coordinated, cryptographic materials.
```

This prevents distributed cryptographic agents from independently
generating unique data keys that COULD BE coordinated,

> which leads to poor caching performance at decryption,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which leads to poor decryption performance,
```

Author: What is "poor decryption performance"?

How does one "poorly" decrypt a message?

Do they fail to check the Auth Tag?

Do they do it in a particularly slow manner?

I am detailing the aspect of the Caching CMM that behaves poorly at Decryption,
which is not Decryption,
the CachingCMM does the same Decryption as any of the other CMMs or Keyrings.

The particular aspect of the CachingCMM that is second rate in Decryption
is Caching Performance:
the probability of a cache hit is inversly proportional to the number of hosts that encrypted data.
i.e: More Encrypting Hosts, worse probability of a Cache hit.

That is not "poor decryption performance".
The Performance of Decryption is, fortunately, static.

That is poor Caching performance.

The DynamoDb Client used to put and get keys from the backing DDB table.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is KMS Key ARN or KMS MRKey ARN,
and no DynamoDb Client is provided,
a new DynamoDb Client MUST be created
with the region of the supplied KMS ARN.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is Discovery,
and no DynamoDb Client is provided,
a new DynamoDb Client MUST be created
with the default configuration.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is MRDiscovery,
and no DynamoDb Client is provided,
a new DynamoDb Client MUST be created
with the region configured in the MRDiscovery.

### KMS Client

The KMS Client used when wrapping and unwrapping keys.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is KMS Key ARN or KMS MRKey ARN,
and no KMS Client is provided,
a new KMS Client MUST be created
with the region of the supplied KMS ARN.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is Discovery,
and no KMS Client is provided,
a new KMS Client MUST be created
with the default configuration.

If the AWS KMS Configuration is MRDiscovery,
and no KMS Client is provided,
a new KMS Client MUST be created
with the region configured in the MRDiscovery.

> On initialization the KeyStore SHOULD

Reviewer: Why MUST to SHOULD?

Author: Because we have never done it and have no backlog item to do so.

Also, customers really MUST have the right to be excluded from metrics.

append a user agent string to the AWS KMS SDK Client with
the value `aws-kms-hierarchy`.

### Table Name

The table name of the DynamoDb table that backs this Keystore.

### AWS KMS Configuration

This configures the Keystore's KMS Key ARN restrictions,
which determines which KMS Key(s) is used
to wrap and unwrap the keys stored in Amazon DynamoDB.
There are four (4) options:

- Discovery
- MRDiscovery
- Single Region Key Compatibility, denoted as `KMS Key ARN`
- Multi Region Key Compatibility, denoted as `KMS MRKey ARN`

`KMS Key ARN` and `KMS MRKey ARN` MUST take an additional argument
that is a KMS ARN.
This ARN MUST NOT be an Alias.
This ARN MUST be a valid
[AWS KMS Key ARN](./aws-kms/aws-kms-key-arn.md#a-valid-aws-kms-arn).

> Both `KMS Key ARN` and `KMS MRKey ARN` accept MRK or regular Single Region KMS ARNs.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth expanding for clarity. I would have assumed that `KMS Key ARN` configurations MUST NOT accept MRK ARNs, 
and that `KMS MRK ARN` configurations MUST NOT accept single Region ARNs. 
But this appears to not be the case?

Author: ```suggestion
Both `KMS Key ARN` and `KMS MRKey ARN` accept MRK or regular Single Region KMS ARNs.

To be clear, an KMS ARN for a Multi-Region Key MAY be provided to the `KMS Key ARN` configuration,
and a KMS ARN for non Multi-Region Key MAY be provided to the `KMS MRKey ARN` configuration.
```

then two ARNs are compatible if they are equal in all parts other than the region.
That is, they are compatible if [AWS KMS MRK Match for Decrypt](aws-kms/aws-kms-mrk-match-for-decrypt.md#implementation) returns true.

If the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) is Discovery or MRDiscovery,
no comparison is ever made between ARNs.

#### Discovery

Discovery takes no additional information.

The Keystore can use ANY KMS Key ARN already

> persisted to the backing DynamoDB table,

Author: Issue/Suggestion:
(on behalf of @josecorella ):
```suggestion
persisted on the Key Store table,
```

@josecorella what is "the Keystore table"?.
That is not defined, and does not exist.
Where as a DynamoDB Table is an established concept outside of the Keystore Spec.

Hence, I believe "persisted to the backing DynamoDB table" is 
easier to understand.

Reviewer: We have brought up the idea of not needing to store in Dynamo. There is even a feature request for this. So I suggest we start moving to some more ambiguous terms.

Author: Than give me an ambiguous term.

Is the ambiguous term "Keystore Table"?

Author: Resolving. 
When we introduce a different persistence medium, we can revise this then.

> The Keystore can use ANY KMS Key ARN already
> persisted to the backing DynamoDB table,
> provided they are in records created
> with an identical Logical Keystore Name.

Author: Issue/Suggestion:
(on behalf of @josecorella ): 
```suggestion
The Keystore MAY use the KMS Key ARNs already
persisted to the backing DynamoDB table,
provided they are in records created
with an identical Logical Keystore Name.
```

This change will need to propagated to many places.

Author: Resolved in 83ca2f1

then two ARNs are compatible if they are equal in all parts other than the region.
That is, they are compatible if [AWS KMS MRK Match for Decrypt](aws-kms/aws-kms-mrk-match-for-decrypt.md#implementation) returns true.

If the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) is Discovery or MRDiscovery,

> no comparison is ever made between ARNs.

Reviewer: I think you mean something like "The ARN stored in the key store is used..." or something. You are trying to get at the fact that there is nothing to compare?

I mean in the case of MRDiscovery, there is a kind of comparison right, because if the key is an MRK, then we would modify it to the correct region right?

Author: I believe MRDiscovery's logic is covered elsewhere.

What wording would you suggest for this section?

#### Discovery

Discovery takes no additional information.

The Keystore MAY use the KMS Key ARNs already
persisted to the backing DynamoDB table,
provided they are in records created
with an identical Logical Keystore Name.

The `VersionKey` and `CreateKey` Operations are NOT supported
and will fail with a runtime exception.

There is no Multi-Region logic with this configuration;
if a Multi-Region Key is encountered,
and the region in the ARN is not the region of the KMS Client,
requests will fail with KMS Exceptions.

#### MRDiscovery

MRDiscovery takes an additional argument, which is a region.
Any MRK ARN discovered will be changed to this region before use.

The Keystore MAY use the KMS Key ARNs already
persisted to the backing DynamoDB table,
provided they are in records created
with an identical Logical Keystore Name.

The `VersionKey` and `CreateKey` Operations are NOT supported
and will fail with a runtime exception.

If a Multi-Region Key is encountered,

> the region in the ARN is replaced by the configured region.

Reviewer: I think this is just repeating `Any MRK ARN discovered will be changed to this region before use.` and can be dropped.

> If a Multi-Region Key is encountered,
> the region in the ARN is replaced by the configured region.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The wrapped Branch Keys, DECRYPT_ONLY and ACTIVE, MUST be created according to [Wrapped Branch Key Creation](#wrapped-branch-key-creation).

To create a beacon key, this operation will continue to use the `branchKeyId` and `timestamp` as the [Branch Key](structures.md#branch-key).

The operation MUST call [AWS KMS API GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/APIReference/API_GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext.html).
The call to AWS KMS GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext MUST use the configured AWS KMS client to make the call.
The operation MUST call AWS KMS GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext with a request constructed as follows:

> - `KeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `KMS ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `KeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

The call to AWS KMS GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext MUST use the configured AWS KMS client to make the call.
The operation MUST call AWS KMS GenerateDataKeyWithoutPlaintext with a request constructed as follows:

> - `KeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `KeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

with a request constructed as follows:

- `SourceEncryptionContext` MUST be the [DECRYPT_ONLY encryption context for branch keys](#decrypt_only-encryption-context).

> - `SourceKeyId` be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Reviewer: Why drop the `MUST`?

> - `SourceKeyId` be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `SourceKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

> - `SourceKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `SourceKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

- `CiphertextBlob` MUST be the wrapped DECRYPT_ONLY Branch Key.
- ReEncrypt `GrantTokens` MUST be this keystore's [grant tokens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#grant_token).

> - `DestinationKeyId` be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Reviewer: Why drop the `MUST`?

> - `DestinationKeyId` be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `DestinationKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

> - `DestinationKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `Key ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `DestinationKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

    - “create-time” (S): `timestamp`

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS Key ARN`

Author: ```suggestion
    - "kms-arn" (S): configured KMS Key
```

    - “hierarchy-version” (N): 1
    - Every key-value pair of the custom [encryption context](./structures.md#encryption-context-3) that is associated with the branch key

>       MUST BE added as with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MUST be added with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.
```

    - “create-time” (S): `timestamp`

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS Key ARN`

Author: ```suggestion
    - "kms-arn" (S): configured KMS Key
```

    - “hierarchy-version” (N): 1
    - Every key-value pair of the custom [encryption context](./structures.md#encryption-context-3) that is associated with the branch key

>       MUST BE added as with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MUST be added with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.
```

    - “create-time” (S): `timestamp`

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS Key ARN`

Author: ```suggestion
    - "kms-arn" (S): configured KMS Key
```

    - “hierarchy-version” (N): 1
    - Every key-value pair of the custom [encryption context](./structures.md#encryption-context-3) that is associated with the branch key

>       MUST BE added as with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MUST be added with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.
```

    - “type“ (S): "branch:version:" + `version`,
    - “enc” (B): the wrapped DECRYPT_ONLY Branch Key `CiphertextBlob` from the KMS operation
    - “create-time” (S): `timestamp`

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS ARN`

Reviewer: Hum, nit: A KMS ARN can be an key or an alias. Whereas a KMS Key ARN can only be a key.

Reviewer 2: The problem, it seems, is that we're using `KMS Key ARN` to mean single-Region KMS key, as opposed to `KMS MRK ARN` for multi-Region KMS keys? It's not clear to me but I believe one can use an MRK (and thus its ARN) as if it were a single-Region key, with no notion of regional discovery. So `KMS Key ARN` is accurate in this case; we should keep it here and below to distinguish from aliases.

Author: I know. 
But, we called our original KMS Configuration `kmsKeyArn`. 
And then we introduced `kmsMRKeyArn`.

So... if we write "configured `KMS Key ARN`, do we mean never write a `KMS MRKey ARN`?

Which is an ambiguity I am dealing with by saying `KMS ARN`.
Fortunately, we have specified in many other places that it will never be an Alias.

Author: I posted my comment without seeing @justplaz comment.
I will refactor.

Author: Wait, what if I just put "KMS Key".

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS ARN`

Author: ```suggestion
    - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS Key ARN`
```

    - “hierarchy-version” (N): 1
    - Every key-value pair of the custom [encryption context](./structures.md#encryption-context-3) that is associated with the branch key

>       MUST BE added as with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MUST be added with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.
```

    - “type“ (S): "branch:ACTIVE",
    - “enc” (B): wrapped ACTIVE Branch Key `CiphertextBlob` from the KMS operation
    - “create-time” (S): `timestamp`

>     - "kms-arn" (S): configured `KMS ARN`

Author: ```suggestion
    - "kms-arn" (S): configured KMS Key
```

    - “hierarchy-version” (N): 1
    - Every key-value pair of the custom [encryption context](./structures.md#encryption-context-3) that is associated with the branch key

>       MUST BE added as with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      MUST be added with an Attribute Name of `aws-crypto-ec:` + the Key and Attribute Value (S) of the value.
```

with a request constructed as follows:

- `SourceEncryptionContext` MUST be the [encryption context](#encryption-context) constructed above

> - `SourceKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `KMS ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `SourceKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

- `CiphertextBlob` MUST be the `enc` attribute value on the AWS DDB response item
- `GrantTokens` MUST be the configured [grant tokens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#grant_token).

> - `DestinationKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `KMS ARN` in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.

Author: ```suggestion
- `DestinationKeyId` MUST be [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore.
```

MUST equal the value with the same key in the AWS DDB response item.
The key `enc` MUST NOT exist in the constructed [encryption context](#encryption-context).

If the Keystore's [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) is `KMS Key ARN` or `KMS MRKey ARN`,
the `kms-arn` field of the DDB response item MUST be

> [compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured `KMS ARN` in

Author: ```suggestion
[compatible with](#aws-key-arn-compatibility) the configured KMS Key in
```

the [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) for this keystore,
or the operation MUST fail.

If the Keystore's [AWS KMS Configuration](#aws-kms-configuration) is `Discovery` or `MRDiscovery`,
the `kms-arn` field of DDB response item MUST NOT be an Alias
or the operation MUST fail.

<!--  "For all Branch Keys created by any version of the MPL, an Alias for kms-arn is impossible." -->

When calling [AWS KMS Decrypt](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/APIReference/API_Decrypt.html),
the keystore operation MUST call with a request constructed as follows:

- `KeyId`, if the KMS Configuration is Discovery, MUST be the `kms-arn` attribute value of the AWS DDB response item.
  If the KMS Configuration is MRDiscovery, `KeyId` MUST be the `kms-arn` attribute value of the AWS DDB response item, with the region replaced by the configured region.

>   Otherwise, it MUST BE the Keystore's `KMS ARN`.

Reviewer: This is a mouthful. Can we simplify this?

Author: I am open to suggestions, but, at this time, looking to ship software, and do not have the capacity to refactor this.

>   Otherwise, it MUST BE the Keystore's `KMS ARN`.

Author: ```suggestion
  Otherwise, it MUST BE the Keystore's configured KMS Key.
```
